# Legendata

Legendata is a collection of legendary creatures' names and descriptions. It is
mostly based on material from the Wikipedia article
[Lists of legendary creatures][1] and its descendants, which are released under
the [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0][2].

The data were manually extracted from the lists on Wikipedia, generally
excluding location-specific information. Given the manual nature of the process,
some things were invariably missed. Certain pieces of descriptions have been
ignored or lightly modified, e.g. to fit a certain part of speech. The last
extraction occurred in early 2022.

### Content disclaimer

You may find some material objectionable: Because the data are mostly from
contented generated by users, you may encounter material that you find offensive
or otherwise objectionable. Please use common sense and proper judgment when
using the data.

_Disclaimer modified from text found in the [Wikimedia Terms of Use][3],
released under the [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0][2]._

### Future directions

There are a number of ways the data could be mutated to fit specific use cases.
In general, having finer-grained lists seems valuable. Here are a handful of
ideas for improvements:

1. Adverbs could be broken out from adjectives, e.g "beautiful" and "extremely
   beautiful" could become a single adjective, "beautiful", and an adverb,
   "extremely".

2. Certain specifiers could be broken out from species as stand-alone
   adjectives, e.g "elf" and "dark elf" could become a single species, "elf",
   and an optional specifier "dark".

3. Hybrid species could be removed, and users of the data could dynamically
   combine them, e.g. "human-horse" could be composed of the existing "human"
   and "horse" species instead of stored as a separate species.

4. Some attributes/item attributes could apply to either a creature or an item,
   e.g. "made of bronze". There could be a separate list for these general
   attributes.

5. Attributes, item attributes, and verbs contain texts that have common
   elements, e.g. "travels in a boat" and "travels in a canoe". Each list could
   be broken down into sublists used to compose phrases.

### License

This work is released under a
[Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License][4].

[1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lists_of_legendary_creatures
[2]: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/
[3]: https://foundation.wikimedia.org/wiki/Terms_of_Use/en
[4]: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/
